                                                   DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
                                                                         CMR INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
                                                                (Approved by AICTE, Affiliated to JNTU, Hyderabad)
                                                                            Kandlakoya , Medchal road, Hyderabad.
                                                                              2020-2021
                                                                                                    SENTIMENT ANALYSIS
                                                                         Submitted By
                                                                                                  S.Neelima(17R01A05A9)
                                                                                                  M.Karthik (17R01A05E3)
                                                                                                  P.Bhargav (17R01A05F4)
                                                                                                  Md.Ijaz Ahmed (17R01A05M8)




                                                                                                  Under the Guidance Of
                                                                                                   Mr. A. Nageswara Rao
                                                                                                   (Associate Professor)









2.TABLE OF CONTENTS


Sl.no          Content 	                                                 Page no.
1.	Introduction	                                     3
2.	How does sentiment analysis work	4-6
3.	Classifiers	                                                       7
4.	Methodology	                                     8
5.	Proposed Work	                                   9-10
6.	Implementation	                                    10
7.	Conclusion	                                    11













1. INTRODUCTION
Sentiment analysis (or opinion mining) is a natural language processing technique used to determine whether data
 is positive or negative. Sentiment analysis is often performed on textual data to help businesses monitor brand and 
product sentiment in customer feedback, and understand customer needs.Sentiment analysis is the process of detecting
 positive or negative sentiment in text. It’s often used by businesses to detect sentiment in social data, gauge brand
 reputation, and understand customers.
Since customers express their thoughts and feelings more openly than ever before,sentiment analysis is becoming an 
essential tool to monitor and understand that sentiment. Automatically analyzing customer feedback, such as opinions
 in survey responses and social media conversations, allows brands to learn what makes customers happy or frustrated,
 so that they can tailor products and services to meet their customers’ needs.
For example, using sentiment analysis to automatically analyze 4,000+ reviews about your product could help you discover
 if customers are happy about your pricing plans and customer service.
Types of Sentiment Analysis
Sentiment analysis models focus on polarity (positive, negative, neutral) but also on feelings and emotions (angry, happy, sad, etc),
 urgency (urgent, not urgent) and even intentions (interested v. not interested).
Depending on how you want to interpret customer feedback and queries, you can define and tailor your categories to meet 
your sentiment analysis needs. In the meantime, here are some of the most popular types of sentiment analysis:
•	Fine-grained Sentiment Analysis
•	Emotion Detection
•	Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis
•	Multilingual Sentiment Analysis


2. How Does Sentiment Analysis Work?
Sentiment analysis, otherwise known as opinion mining, works thanks to natural language processing (NLP) and machine
 learning algorithms, to automatically determine the emotional tone behind online conversations.
There is lot of unstructured data (emails, support tickets, chats, social media conversations, surveys, articles, documents).
 Sentiment analysis can help in  making sense of this data.

People post things on twitter and instagram. The tweets can be collected that have the product hash tag with them. 
Then sentiment analysis model can be used to classify the tweets.
There are different algorithms you can implement in sentiment analysis models, depending on how much data you need
 to analyze, and how accurate you need your model to be. We’ll go over some of these in more detail, below:
Sentiment analysis algorithms fall into one of three buckets:
•	Rule-based: these systems automatically perform sentiment analysis based on a set of manually crafted rules.
•	Automatic: systems rely on machine learning techniques to learn from data.
•	Hybrid:systems combine both rule-based and automatic approaches.
Rule-based Approaches
Usually, a rule-based system uses a set of human-crafted rules to help identify subjectivity, polarity, or the subject of an opinion.
These rules may include various NLP techniques developed in computational linguistics, such as:
•	Stemming, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging and parsing.
•	Lexicons (i.e. lists of words and expressions).

The type of bucket used in the project is Automatic: systems rely on machine learning techniques to learn from data.

Automatic Approaches
Automatic methods, contrary to rule-based systems, don't rely on manually crafted rules, but on machine learning techniques.
 A sentiment analysis task is usually modelled as a classification problem, whereby a classifier is fed a text and returns a category,
 e.g. positive, negative. 
 
The Training and Prediction Processes
In the training process (a), our model learns to associate a particular input (i.e. a text) to the corresponding output (tag) based on
 the test samples used for training. The feature extractor transfers the text input into a feature vector. Pairs of feature vectors and
 tags (e.g. positive, negative, or neutral) are fed into the machine learning algorithm to generate a model.
In the prediction process (b), the feature extractor is used to transform unseen text inputs into feature vectors. These feature vectors
 are then fed into the model, which generates predicted tags (again, positive, negative, or neutral).
Feature Extraction from Text
The first step in a machine learning text classifier is to transform the text extraction or text vectorization, and the classical approach
 has been bag-of-words or bag-of-ngrams with their frequency.

More recently, new feature extraction techniques have been applied based on word embeddings (also known as word vectors). 
This kind of representations makes it possible for words with similar meaning to have a similar representation, which can improve
 the performance of classifiers.

Hybrid Approaches
Hybrid systems combine the desirable elements of rule-based and automatic techniques into one system. One huge benefit of these
 systems is that results are often more accurate.


3. Classifiers
The classification step usually involves a statistical model like Naïve Bayes, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines, or 
Neural Networks:

•	Naïve Bayes: 
A family of probabilistic algorithms that uses Bayes’s Theorem to predict the category of a text.

•	Linear Regression: 
A very well-known algorithm in statistics used to predict              some value (Y) given a set of features (X).

•	Support Vector Machines: 
A non-probabilistic model which uses a representation of text examples as points in a multidimensional space. Examples of 
different categories (sentiments) are mapped to distinct regions within that space. Then, new texts are assigned a category based 
on similarities with existing texts and the regions they’re mapped to.

•	Deep Learning:
A diverse set of algorithms that attempt to mimic the human brain,by employing artificial neural networks to process data.

•	Logistic Regression:
It is used to determine the output or resultwhen there are one or more than  one independent variable. 



4. Methodology
Logistic Regression is one of the basic and popular algorithm to solve a classification problem. It is named as 'Logistic Regression',
 because it's underlying technique is quite the same as Linear Regression. The term “Logistic” is taken from the Logit function that
 is used in this method of classification.
Logistic regression is a supervised learning classification algorithm used to predict the probability of a target variable.
The nature of target or dependent variable is dichotomous, which means there would be only two possible classes.In simple words,
 the dependent variable is binary in nature having data coded as either 1 (stands for success/yes) or 0 (stands for failure/no).Logistic
 Regression, also known as Logit Regression or Logit Model, is a mathematical model used in statistics to estimate (guess) the 
probability of an event occurring having been given some previous data.
Like all regression analyses, the logistic regression is a predictive analysis.Logistic regression is used to describe data and to explain 
the relationship between one dependent binary variable and one or more nominal, ordinal, interval or ratio-level independent variables.
Types of Logistic Regression
1.	Binary Logistic Regression: The categorical response has only two possible outcomes.
2.	MultinomialLogistic Regression: Three or more categories without ordering.
3.	Ordinal Logistic Regression: Three or more categories.
Subjectivity  filtering:  Subjectivity  filtering  is  used  to  gain 


5. Proposed Work
Before implementing the research work some concepts should be well known. These concepts are defined below: 
• Subjectivity filtering: Subjectivity filtering is used to gain accurate result when the training dataset is small. To classify a tweet, 
TextBlob is used which classify the tweets into subjective or objective. The tweets which have score less than a specific threshold are
 then removed. After this filtering, the remaining tweets are used to train datasets. As subjectivity threshold increases, number of tweets
 will filtered.
• Preprocessing: Preprocessing is done to remove the data which is not useful to reduce the feature space. In most of the researches,
 preprocessing steps are same but here some more steps are considered. 
1. Basic steps: The emoticons in any comment or tweet are stripped of. Users often include twitter usernames in their tweets in order to 
direct their messages. Usernames (e.g. @Chinmay) and URLs present in tweets are also stripped of because they do not help in sentiment
 classification. Apart from full stops, which are dealt in the next point, other punctuations and special symbols are also removed. Repeated
 whitespaces are replaced with a single space. Stemming is also performed in order to reduce the size of the feature space.
2.Full Stops: Full stops in the model are usually replaced by a space. However, it is observed that casual language in tweets is often seen in
 form of repeated punctuations. For example, this is so cool...wow. This format is taken into consideration, and two or more occurrences of 
(.) and (- ) is replaced with a space. Also, full stops are also quite different in usage. Sometimes, there is not any space in between sentences. 
3) Removing Hash-tags: Hash-tag in a tweet is used to emphasize a particular word or sentence, for example #thisisgood. Removal of these 
hash-tags is important because these hash-tags do not define any sentiment. Thus pre-processing is done and hash-tags before any word are removed.


6.Implementation
Twitter sentiment analysis provides many exciting opportunities. Being able to analyze tweets in real-time, and determine the sentiment that 
underlies each message, adds a new dimension to social media monitoring.
Below, we’ve listed some of the most popular ways that sentiment analysis is being used in business:
1.	Social Media Monitoring.
2.	Brand Monitoring.
3.	Voice of customer (VoC).
4.	Customer Service.


Social Media Monitoring
Sentiment analysis is used in social media monitoring, allowing businesses to gain insights about how customers feel about certa  in topics,
 and detect urgent issues in real time before they spiral out of control. 
Online reputation is one of the most precious assets for brands. A bad review on social media can be costly to a company if it’s not handled 
effectively and swiftly. 
Twitter sentiment analysis allows you to keep track of what’s being said about your product or service on social media, and can help you 
detect angry customers or negative mentions before they turn into a major crisis.



7.Conclusion
As it is observed these days, that many individuals’ posts surveys with respect to any item, movie, game or occasion via web-based networking
 media stages. For this, it is essential for the organizations to define particular sentiments of such surveys keeping in mind the end goal to realize 
that what individuals think about the item. The projected method utilizes one such stage called twitter to play out the sentiment categorization. 

The information is taken as tweets in the wake of verifying the client. The current framework has utilized Naive Bayes and Support Vector 
Machine classifiers to classify the sentiments. The classifiers utilized as a part of proposed framework are Support Vector Machine, Naïve
 Bayes. For highlighting features Logistic Regression is used and for defining labels Effective score of a word is utilized.















